---
layout: post
title: inuitcss v5.0
meta: inuitcss gets a complete overhaul for its fifth version
---

# {{ page.title }}

[inuitcss is now (already!) at v5.0.](https://github.com/csswizardry/inuit.css)
However, this version doesn’t introduce much in the way of new features, it’s a
lot more about how you use, implement and update the framework.

## Submodules and the web template

A lot of people have asked whether inuitcss could be made into a submodule (or
similar) so that they can grab any updates to the project as they happen. In
theory this made perfect sense as inuitcss – by design – is a very design-free
framework, which in turn means that it doesn’t really require any modification.
Updating any library becomes very tricky when you’ve modified it, so the aim
with v5.0 was to make the core need _no_ modification whatsoever, and handle any
overrides from a wrapper…

inuitcss core has remained largely the same, this library is (by-and-large) the
one you’re used to. What we have now, though, is the
[inuitcss web template](https://github.com/csswizardry/inuit.css-web-template)
which is a wrapper for the framework which means you can now include inuitcss
as a Git submodule. The practical upshot of this is that you no longer need to
edit a _single_ line of library code, and getting inuitcss’ latest updates is
as simple as a `$ git pull`.

Installing inuitcss v5.0 is as simple as:

    $ git clone --recursive git@github.com:csswizardry/inuit.css-web-template.git your-project-folder
    $ cd your-project-folder
    $ ./go

If you’re not comfortable with Git submodules then getting set up on inuitcss
is as simple as downloading [the web template zip](https://github.com/csswizardry/inuit.css-web-template/archive/master.zip)
and unpacking it to a location of your choosing. Once that’s done, download the
[inuitcss zip](https://github.com/csswizardry/inuit.css/archive/master.zip) and
unpack that into `css/inuitcss`.

This new way of working ensures that you can keep inuitcss up to date by never
having to change or alter the core library.

**For full installation and setup instructions, please see [the project’s
README](https://github.com/csswizardry/inuit.css#readme).**

## New features

As well as the move to a submodule, v5.0 has a few new features, namely the move
to [csswizardry-grids](https://github.com/csswizardry/csswizardry-grids) and
[beautons](http://csswizardry.com/beautons/) for the framework’s grid system and
button toolkit respectively.

## The future of inuitcss

v4.x of the framework was hastily developed; too hastily in my opinion. From now
on, v5.x and beyond will be developed and grown in a much more considered way.
This process will get slower but will be taken more seriously; instead of
releasing a minor version every other day, development will happen in
transparent ‘version’ branches (e.g. `v5.1`) and releases will be rolled out to
`master` less frequently but more meaningfully. Anyone keen to get bleeding-edge
changes and functionality can keep an eye on those branches and begin using them
before they get merged into `master` (at their own risk, of course).
